[English](./README.md) | [中文](.README_ZH.md)

# A HelloWorld Project using Ng-zorro for Tour of Heros tutorial

## 1.Angular and Ng-zorro

Angular is one of the three (current) most popular frameworks in front end, it has the most detailed and well formatter document compare to sililar open source projects ( with no offence). The most two important steps to learn Angular are to finish the two official tutorials. The first one is simple but clear to illustrate important Angular design basics while the second one (Tour of Heros) offers a complete Angular project with lots of official document context.

Ant Design is another opensource enterprise-class UI design components library, it is official reallized for React, with Ng-zorro as its Angular realization. Ant design / Ng-zorro is widely used in practical projects. This project is trying to rewrite the official Tour of Heros tutorial while implements ng-zorro and some detailed illustration and modification.

## 2. Project Branches

Different branches is used for different steps with the tutorial, checkout each branch to reach the relative step, or checkout the master branch to see current project status.

- 1.initial: A branch to start from, with angular and ng-zorro initialized.
- 

## 3. Project Step1.

### 3.1 Initialize Project (branch 1.initial)

Nodejs (currently V13 is used.) need to be globally installed, it is strongly recommended to use NVM for node version management. In this project I use Windows 10 WSL (ubuntu 18.04) for development with VS code and its `Remote-WSL` extension. The other VS code extensions recommended for this project includes:
  - Angular Essentials (Version 9), which cotents a set of helpful extensions for Angular development.
  - NG-ZORRO Snippets, which is usefull for development with NG-ZORRO

A set of global Node packages also need to be installed for development purpose.
  - Angular CLI tools to build and manage angular project
  - A `json-server` is helpful to test the project without build heavy backend server. 

To install relative packages (NPM is recommended).

```bash
npm install -g angular/cli
npm install -g json-server
```

To start a new Angular project and add ng-zorro:
```bash
ng new heros
cd heros
code .
```
Above command will build a heros project and change current directory to heros, in the prompts of project options,choose Route modules and LESS for project styles. If you have VS code installed the last command will open the project directory with it.

In the Angular project directory, use ng command to add ng-zorro in the project.

```bash
ng add ng-zorro-antd
```
There are also several options to start ng-zorro. For convenience, choos yes for icon assets and custome theme. choose zh_CH for locale code and sidemenu template to start.

After above steps,type following command and open a browser ( firefox or chrome is recommended), input `http://127.0.0.1:4200` to see the project is running.

```bash
ng serve
```

checkout branch `1.initial` and install packages to see the final effect.

### 3.2 Angular project structure

When the project is initialized, you will find the folders and files structure that both automatically generated by Angular and Ng-zorro. 
The default `app.component.html` file was replaced by ng-zorro, in the new `app.component.html` file, some nz components are used to setup a side bar, a header and a body for further development.



Meanwhile, ng-zorro also automatically generated a `welcome` component which is an example to generate more pages.








## Development server

Run `ng serve` for a dev server. Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The app will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

## Code scaffolding

Run `ng generate component component-name` to generate a new component. You can also use `ng generate directive|pipe|service|class|guard|interface|enum|module`.

## Build

Run `ng build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `--prod` flag for a production build.

## Running unit tests

Run `ng test` to execute the unit tests via [Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io).

## Running end-to-end tests

Run `ng e2e` to execute the end-to-end tests via [Protractor](http://www.protractortest.org/).

## Further help

To get more help on the Angular CLI use `ng help` or go check out the [Angular CLI README](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/blob/master/README.md).



